\section{APPLICATION TO SCALE FREE NETWORK WITH FRACTIONAL ORDER DYNAMICS}
\label{sec:scalefree}

In this section we use this network on a system from one of our prior
publications.  In \cite{goodwinemed2023,goodwinemmar2023} we studied the effects
of various parameters in large, scale free networks on the existence of
fractional order dynamics. To further validate the generalizability of the
results for the neural network, we apply it this network to the response of a
large, scale free network with fractional order dynamics. 

Specifically, we consider a network with 2000 nodes. Each node has a mass of 1
and is connected to various other nodes with either a spring or damper, with
coefficients $k = 2501$ and $b = 150$. The details of the manner in which the
network is constructed and justification of the selection of the various
parameter values are contained in the references.  The step response of the
system when one of the masses has a non-zero initial condition is computed, and
the response of one of the nodes is observed. The network used for this
validation is illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:network} and the response of node
1011 when node 100 was displaced by 1 was determined by numerically solving the
system of 4000 differential equations and is illustrated in
Figure~\ref{fig:sfresp}.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=3.5in]{network}
\caption{Large scale free network used for validation.}
\label{fig:network}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\input{networkresponse.pgf}
\vspace*{-5pt}
\caption{Response of scale free network.}
\label{fig:sfresp}
\end{figure}

Because it is a mechanical system with 2000 nodes, the overall system has
extremely high order dynamics. The purpose of the research outlined in the
references is to determine reduced order models and determine when a fractional
order ``reduced order'' model better matches the response than a standard second
order model. Using two different optimization methods (Matlab
\texttt{patternsearch} (deterministic) and \texttt{particleswarm} (stochastic))
the best fit of a fractional order unit step response and second order step
response were determined. 

We then compare the order determined by the optimization method, which is very
slow, to the order predicted by the neural network, which is very fast.  The
predicted order by the neural network was 1.782. The predicted order by the two
optimization methods was 1.784, showing nearly exact agreement.
