\section{APPLICATION TO SCALE FREE NETWORK WITH FRACTIONAL ORDER DYNAMICS}
\label{sec:scalefree}

In \cite{goodwinemed2023,goodwinemmar2023} we studied the effects of various
parameters in large, scale free networks on the existence of fractional order
dynamics. To further validate the generalizability of the results for the neural
network, we apply it to a large, scale free network with fractional order
dynamics.

Specifically, we consider a network with 2000 nodes. Each node has a mass of 1
and is connected to various other nodes with either a spring or damper, with
coefficients $k = 2501$ and $b = 150$. The details of the manner in which the
network is constructed to make it scale free are contained in the references.
The step response of the system when one of the masses has a non-zero initial
condition is computed, and the response of one of the nodes is observed. The
network used for this validation is illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:network} and
the response of node 1011 when node 100 was displaced by 1 was determined by
numerically solving the system of 4000 first order differential equations and is
illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:sfresp}..

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=3.5in]{network}
\caption{Large scale free network used for validation.}
\label{fig:network}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\input{networkresponse.pgf}
\vspace*{-5pt}
\caption{Response of scale free network.}
\label{fig:sfresp}
\end{figure}

Because it is a mechanical system with 2000 interconnected nodes, the overall
system has extremely high order dynamics. The purpose of the research outlined
in the references is to determine reduced order models and determine when a
fractional order ``reduced order'' model better matches the response than a
standard second order model. Using two different optimization methods (Matlab
\texttt{patternsearch} (deterministic) and \texttt{particleswarm} (stochastic))
the best fit of a fractional order unit step response and second order step
response were determined. Again the match is excellent.  The predicted order by
the neural network was 1.782. The predicted order by the two optimization
methods was 1.784, showing nearly exact agreement.
